# encourage-eats

The inspiration for our Psych Hacks project stems from what we’ve seen online and how body image is portrayed. Magazines, clothing stores, and social media often present an “ideal” body type that changes frequently, but mostly revolves around being thin. The unrealistic, eurocentric, and unhealthy beauty standards have provoked a surge in mental health problems, specifically eating disorders and negative body image in youth populations. According to the Park Nicollet Melrose Center, 70% of normal weighted women want to be thinner, and 80% of teen girls and 34% of teen boys don’t like how they look (Gallivan). Seeking help in this regard is difficult, however, especially because parents often are the ones that unintentionally instill eating disorders in their children by monitoring their diets and commenting on their weights (Six Ways Parents). Teens may be anxious or embarrassed to ask for help as a result, and may fear speaking to authority or their friends about their issues. Thus, an online texting chatbot would be an ideal solution for them to discuss their worries without the burdens and anxieties of being judged. Although there are helplines and chatting services for mental illnesses such as depression, there doesn’t seem to be an established and well-made bot online that specifically targets eating disorders for teenagers. 

Encourage Eats is a Discord chat bot that implements the Discord API and other database APIs to promote a positive mindset and body image. Users can implement this bot in their personal servers or message one-on-one. While talking to the bot, the user can have a conversation about their eating disorder, their fears of weight gain/negative body image, or anything else about their day. One of the features is that the bot will produce generated texts in response depending on keywords. For example, if the user types “i feel fat,” Encouraging Eats may send back “your body is beautiful.” These kinds of affirmations are designed to help the user feel more encouraged, and such words can actually restore a happier mood and boost self-confidence (Cascio et al.). 

References:
Cascio, Christopher N, et al. “Self-Affirmation Activates Brain Systems Associated with Self-Related Processing and Reward and Is Reinforced by Future Orientation.” Social Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience, Oxford University Press, Apr. 2016, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4814782/. 
Gallivan, Heather. Teens, Social Media And Body Image: www.macmh.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/18_Gallivan_Teens-social-media-body-image-presentation-H-Gallivan-Spring-2014.pdf. 
“Six Ways Parents Unintentionally Teach Disordered Eating to Children.” Center For Discovery, 9 Mar. 2021, centerfordiscovery.com/blog/mom-cause-eating-disorder-six-ways-parents-unintentionally-teach-disordered-eating-children/. 
